>> Scott Moss: First thing is,
what is GraphQL?
And why is it here?
So here's the definition of GraphQL, and
I'll basically tell you what I
think it is and how it works.
Graphkill is a powerful query language for
APIs and a runtime for
executing those queries with
your data's type system.
Unlike REST, which uses predefined
endpoints to access data,
GraphQL allows clients to request
exactly what they need and nothing more.
ChatGPT helped me write that, by the way,
cuz it sounds nothing like me.
[LAUGH] What I think GraphQL is
in the way I would describe it,
it's basically like TypeScript for
your API.
That's basically it.
Who here has used TRPC or heard of it?
Okay, TRPC is another way
you can get typed queries.
It's another way you can get
typed data for your APIs.
GraphQL what it is,
it's basically a few things.
There's a query language,
which looks very similar to JSON and
which you can use to describe
the shape of your data.
And then there's a backend component
that takes that query language,
does exact type matching with it
to make sure it fits the type so
it does the craziest input validation you
can think of on down to a property level.
And then if that works,
it then tries to resolve each one of those
fields on your query that you asked for.
So that way, you can query highly
relational data in any format that you
want, whereas if you didn't have GraphQL,
you could only query the relational
data in whatever way that the person
who built it back in allowed you to.
Because they would have to write those
queries, those database queries ahead of
time, and it create the routes ahead of
time and then give you the options for
the query string ahead of time and like
here are the rules you have to follow.
With GraphQL it's infinite.
You can do whatever you want.
So it's a different mental model when
thinking about it, especially on the back
end, but basically it's just a way for
you to describe the data that you want and
get it back exactly the way that you
asked for it and guarantee type safety.
That's it So, that's GraphQL.
So it's pretty cool.
Created by Facebook a long time ago,
and then they open sourced it.
And so far it's been well used.
You have big companies
like Netflix using it.
There are like startups who have billion
dollar products that are tools just for
GraphQL.
It's a huge ecosystem of people
building products, companies using it,
tons of open source.
There's so many plugins and applications
and tooling built around GraphQL.
And one use case that I've learned with
GraphQL that's quite useful in the client
is for mobile, like mobile and
GraphQL actually works very well.
Because for mobile you're very data
constrained, you're network constrained.
You really only wanna get the information
that you need to put it on the screens.
Anything more is can be quite expensive
as far as like network requests.
So GraphQL is great for that.
And there's many other but
that's actually a really great one.
I kind of already talked about some
of the main advantages of rest and
things like that.
But really, the big advantage is
you basically get type checking for
free, you don't have to
do the input validation.
And on the Frontend, at least you
get to describe what you want.
Whereas like with REST, you would have to
have a conversation with the back end team
like, okay, this is what I need on
the frontend, can you make me a route that
returns it exactly like this so
I can use it on the frontend?
You don't have to have
that conversation anymore.
You just write the code for
it and it just works.
So you describe that shape within
the constraints of the schema that you
created.
Some of the bigger differences are,
REST is like a combination of a URL and
a verb, basically, right?
So if I have resources, like a user,
a post, an article, whatever,
for every one of those resources,
I have a URL path for
it, and then I have a verb that
describes some crud action, a post for
creating, Git for getting a patch, or
a put for updating things like that.
So for every one resource,
you might have, I don't know, five,
six different routes just for
one resource and REST.
And then if you have many resources, those
are a lot of routes you gotta manage.
With GraphQL, it's just one URL the entire
time, no matter what you wanna get,
it's usually GraphQL.
And it's mostly always
gonna be a post request.
Pretty much guaranteed always
gonna be a poster Chris.
So that right there just
makes it simpler in its own.
You're only managing one URL or
one route and
you don't have to think about HTTP verbs.
You don't have to think
about any of those verbs or
those methods because it's
always gonna be a post.
So that already makes it simple.
And then I would say, yeah,
I could talk about the differences
a lot in practicality, but
high level, that's it, yeah, Mark.
>> Mark: What do you get with type
safety when it comes to GraphQL?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, so type safety is
just a fancy word of saying when a client
is sending some type of
query to the back ends,
let's say it's trying to create a user.
And to create a user, you have to
supply an email and a password.
Well, if you wrote a really good back enf,
what you would do,
you would first before you operate on your
database, you would check the inputs that
came from that client to make sure
that there is an email there,
you would make sure there
is a password there.
If you had other validations that you put
on the front end as far as like the length
of the password,
you would also check that on the back end.
So it's like you're validating the input
before you operate on the database, but
you'd have to write that code yourself
if you were doing something non-GraphQl.
Whereas with GraphQL,
that's done for you for free.
That type of validation is executed by
the GraphQL server without you having to
write the code for it before any of your
logic runs to actually satisfy the query.
So it basically just means it'll
break if the query that you send up
doesn't satisfy the type
constraints of your GraphQL server.
Just the same way as if you would throw
an error if someone sent up a payload that
wasn't the exact shape or type that you
need in order to resolve that request.
It's just done for you for free.
So that's what I mean by type safety and
then to expand on that,
you can generate type scripts from
your graph QL and have type safety all
the way down to your frontend code,
and then it gets even crazier.
So that's what that means.
>> Speaker 3: When you say generate
type script, I mean, you mean like for
Frontend or explain that expansion?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, for sure.
So there are tools in GraphQL that
will look at a GraphQL schema and
then output a TypeScript file that
has TypeScript types that you can
then import into any other
TypeScript file you want.
So in this case,
maybe it's a React component,
it's a file in which you're doing a query
and then now, instead of just getting back
a generic data property that
is the result of your query.
You can map that to an actual type
that matches a server, right?
So like, you have
>> Speaker 3: Like object mapping.
>> Scott Moss: Yep, object mapping.
Exactly, yeah.
Because it's very common.
TypeScript is great, but where it starts
to fall apart is when you have to do
network requests, because how would
TypeScript know that this API returns this
type of data, it just doesn't know.
So with GraphQL and
then doing code generation,
you can bring that all the way down to,
literally the component level.
So if you integrate with that tooling,
yeah, you will have full type safety.
So, and there's different ways to do that.
TRPC solves this differently than GraphQL.
GraphQL you have your cogeneration,
TRPC you don't because it's Typescript and
it uses TypeScript in the same
repo to get it to work.
So there's different ways but
yeah, there's cogent.
We won't be doing code in this
course because I felt like it's
too TypeScript specific.
And you have to know TypeScript
to really understand it.
So I didn't do it, but
it's actually quite easy to do.
Let's talk about the query language.
So GraphQL language, GraphQL.
So let's talk about the foundations of it
and then we'll kind of take a look at it.
So one of the few things or
one of the basic things about the Query
language is something called a field.
And again, I said,
if you've written JSON before or
you've written Javascript objects,
you'll probably feel pretty familiar
with GraphQL, is very similar to that.
So a field is exactly what it sounds like.
It's like a field on an object.
So you can specify which fields
from what objects you need, and
you'll only get back that field if it's
there, depending on the schema and
whether or not it's a non no field or
it can be no or whatever.
But if you ask for it,
that's what you'll get and nothing else.
Nested objects,
this is really cool because this has
a lot to do with relational data.
So if you had an author that had posts and
you wanted to be able to get the posts for
an author,
you can start from the author object and
nest into t the post object and
ask for that data as well.
So you can do that in a way that is
beneficial for the front end and
not the other way around where the person
writing the back end will have to
predefine those queries ahead of time or
they'll have to like create.
Basically what will end up happening is
people in the back end end up creating
their own query language on a query
string, and like, yeah, if you sent me
this on a query string, this is how
you can change how I do the relations.
But at that point,
they're creating their own query language.
So GraphQL is like trying to solve that.
And then there's arguments.
So you can pass different arguments to
some of these fields and nested objects.
That way you can do things like
give me this author by this ID or
given this user by this e-mail.
So there's a lot of argument passing.
We'll discuss a lot of that as well.
But those are the basic building blocks
of doing a query from a request site.
There's a little more we'll cover,
but these are like the foundation,
the basic stuff.
So enough talking, let's get into it.
So here's what a graphical
query looks like.
Like I said,
the kind of looks like an object, right?
There's some slight differences here,
you don't see like a key value,
so it isn't like a field and then a value
here, what this is describing is,
imagine if we had a blog application
where authors have posts.
This is saying, hey,
I want to execute the author query, and
I want to get the author with this ID.
And then on the author object, I wanna
get the name, I wanna get the email.
And then I know authors
have a list of posts.
So what I wanna do is I wanna get
the title and the content and
the publish date for
all the posts for this author.
So what I would get back is an object
called author that has all these
properties on it the exact same name,
it will have an array of posts on it.
And those objects will have
these properties on it.
Nothing more, nothing less.
It'll be exactly this shape.
So now you can write your
UI in a predictable way.
You know it's always
gonna come back this way.
And the reason you know that is because
GraphQL would break before it didn't
come back this way.
There's no way that it will respond to you
with a successful request
without it being this shape,
because you can only send a query that
matches the schema that was created.
So if you send something that wasn't
possible, you'll get back an error.
So if you didn't get back an error,
you got back what you asked for.
And that's the guarantee,
that's the contract that type safety.
So it's quite cool, but you would
have to see the other side of it,
which is a GraphQL schema,
which is more backend related GraphQL,
I'll cover that the backend course.
This course there is no GraphQL schema,
you're just interacting with the GraphQL
server you don't actually
create the schemer.
So you just have to imagine that
there is scheme in the background.